Do you have an opinion on whether Cardi
B performed at the Super Bowl? I mean,
it's funny, but it's also kind of
relevant cuz I saw someone has actually
filed a complaint to the commission
about Calshis decision specifically.
Well, of course we're spending a lot of
resources investigating whether Cardi B
performed after
>> [laughter]
>> Really our focus here is on the market.
So,
the unique thing that the the great
thing about the way that we regulate the
markets is that the exchanges themselves
similar to on the security side are
self-regulatory organizations. So, each
exchange has its own rule book that's
been approved by the agency. It has its
own requirements for contracts that are
certified on the exchange. So, of course
the Cardi B contracts went through a
self-certification process. And then
they're they're settled in accordance
with exchange rules. They go through a
clearing house as well. So, the
exchanges each have these rule books and
certain requirements around how the
contracts are resolved and settled. And
of course now we're seeing some
differences amongst Calshis rule book
and and Polymarkets rule book. But,
that's the great thing about our markets
and and having the ability to build a
business, to develop an exchange with
some flexible guardrails on top that the
agency oversees, but we don't prescribe
exactly what has to be in the rule book.
We have a principles-based system of
regulation.
>> [music]
>> Hello and welcome to another episode of
the Odd Lots podcast. I'm Joe
Weisenthal. And I'm Tracy [music]
Alloway. Uh Tracy, did you watch the
Super Bowl? [laughter]
You knew I was going to ask that, didn't
you? I I knew it. Actually, I I was
going to start exactly the same way.
[clears throat] I did watch the Super
Bowl, and so I feel empowered to ask you
a very controversial question.
>> Not which halftime show you watched, but
>> [laughter]
>> did Cardi B perform at the Super Bowl?
Oh.
Right, cuz this was a big thing. I
forgot that there was You know what? I'm
aware of various sort of questions about
prediction markets and things that
people place bets on. Well, how did that
resolve? What was What was the basic
issue here again? So, I think it's still
uh being resolved in various ways, but
um you know, Cardi B, she was on set
during Bad Bunny's, Yeah.
>> extravaganza, and she was kind of like
dancing and singing along, like mouthing
words at least, along with other people
like Pedro Pascal and Jessica Alba.
Yeah. Lady Gaga.
Well, no, she she didn't sing sing.
>> singing singing. Yeah, you're right,
you're right, you're right. So, the only
reason this matters at all is because of
prediction markets. So, uh there was a
bet, will Cardi B perform?
>> Yeah.
>> And now the question is, does standing
on stage and kind of bobbing your head
and mouthing words count as a
performance? Uh Polymarket says it does.
Kalshi says it doesn't.
>> Oh, interesting. Yeah, there you go.
Kalshi and Polymarket split over whether
Cardi B performed. That's great. Um
that's a great tension. I like that. Um
it is It was striking to me setting
aside that I actually some I seem to
have missed this specific thing. Like,
how much prediction market are now just
part of the consumption experience, you
know, even you look at all these
different things that people are talking
about. There was a Is Lady Gaga going to
show up? Somehow, like someone made a
bet on it before it went public. But
also, just like with each score, you
know, you check the line, it's like how
much did this move the expectations of
whether the Seahawks are leading, like
prediction markets are truly becoming
part of like pop culture and how we
interact with pop culture.
>> There were some weird bets around like
color of Gatorade that was going to get
dumped on the coach.
>> Yeah. Um length of like
the national anthem being sung. Did you
see that? Like, I was tempted by some of
those, but I stayed away.
I've still not [snorts] I haven't used
Polymarket or Kalshi, probably lies. Um
you know, the interesting thing, too, is
like how much the mood has swung, right?
Cuz a few years ago, like um I don't
know, 2022, 2023, I think we did an
episode like at that time, like there
was almost nothing. And the sort of like
regulatory 180, the degree to the
liberalization of these markets has been
pretty remarkable. Even, you know, going
back to a year and a half ago, there was
just a poly market, and it was just the
offshore version that you had to fund
with stable coins. And now it's like
exploded. At the time, you know,
Kalshi was very limited. They didn't
have US access, etc., or very curtailed
US access. Anyway, they're here, and
everyone's trying to wrap their heads
around where this is all going and
stuff.
>> Yeah, it feels like they're much more
sanctioned, I guess, than they used to
be.
But that said, there are still some
issues that people are trying to work
out. You have ambiguous outcomes, like
did Cardi B actually perform?
You have concerns around insider
trading, although not insider trading
per se, cuz we're not talking about
securities contracts, but maybe people
with insider info who inadvertently
disclose something material. I was
thinking about this, actually. So, you
can also bet on which companies are
going to run Super Bowl ads.
>> And a lot of people must know if a
company is going to run an ad like that.
You have like the agency, the actors,
like everyone. And you could argue maybe
that that's material non-public
information, right? You run a Super Bowl
ad, you get a bunch of attention, maybe
your share price goes up if you're
publicly listed. So,
>> Yeah. I don't know. There's so many
things. Anyway, rather than us just keep
talking about them, cuz we could talk
for an hour, we really do have the
perfect guest. We're going to be
speaking with Mike Selig. He is the new
chairman of the CFTC, the main regulator
for prediction markets, who just sworn
in in December.
We're going to talk all about this,
maybe some crypto as well. So, Mike,
thank you so much for coming on Odd
Lots, coming into the studio. Glad to be
here. Why don't you tell us a little bit
about just broadly coming into this new
role? Like, what are your goals here
with the uh CFTC? Well, we're really at
a pivotal moment. You mentioned
prediction markets, crypto, AI, all
manner of new technologies and products
that are impacting our markets. And the
CFTC was really this kind of
little-known regulator before the
financial crisis regulating the futures
markets. It's uh it has expanded
jurisdiction now over the swaps markets,
the over-the-counter derivatives
markets. And now we see so much
innovation in that space with things
like prediction markets and crypto with
legislation uh on the verge of hopefully
being on the president's desk. And so
the the agency is really at this unique
moment where it has the opportunity to
shape the future of these new and
emerging markets. And and it's really
exciting time to be in the seat. Do you
have an opinion on whether Cardi B
performed at the Super Bowl? I mean,
it's funny, but it's also kind of
relevant cuz I saw someone has actually
filed a complaint to the commission
about Kalshi's decision specifically.
Well, of course, we're spending a lot of
resources investigating whether Cardi B
performed
>> [laughter]
>> uh
really our focus here is is on the
market. So, uh the the unique thing that
the the great thing about the way that
we regulate the markets is that the
exchanges themselves, similar to on the
security side, are self-regulatory
organizations. So, each exchange has its
own rulebook that's been approved by the
agency. It has its own requirements for
contracts that are certified on the
exchange. So, of course, the Cardi B
contracts went through a
self-certification process. And then
they're they're settled in accordance
with exchange rules. They go through a
clearing house as well. So, the
exchanges each have these rulebooks and
certain requirements around how the
contracts are resolved and settled. And
of course, now we're seeing some
differences amongst Kalshi's rulebook
and and Polymarket's rulebook. But
that's the great thing about our markets
and and having the ability to build a
business and develop an exchange with
some flexible guardrails on top that the
agency oversees, but we don't uh
prescribe exactly what has to be in the
rulebook. We have a principles-based
system of regulation.
Um what is the basis for something like
is Cardi B going to perform at the Super
Bowl halftime show? What is the basis
for this being categorized as a true
financial instrument uh regulated by the
CFTC? Cuz it certainly just feels like
prop betting to me. Who has economic
exposure they need to hedge to Cardi B
performing? There's a really interesting
historical story around the definition
of commodity and the the markets that we
regulate today starting back in in the
'30s when the the Commodity Exchange Act
was first ratified. It was originally
focused on grain and over time we've had
things like pork bellies.
>> Come a long way. Exactly. It's it's come
a very long way. Of course with the
financial crisis we got uh all manner of
of new products within our authority. Um
but but the the definition of commodity
is extraordinarily broad. Uh it includes
virtually everything except a few things
that have been carved out uh onions and
motion picture box office receipts. And
that's a a really important point to
note that they were expressly carved
out. So most things in our commerce
today uh even securities are technically
considered commodities under our act and
we have authority to regulate them. In
the case of securities we we coordinate
with the SEC and have some joint
authority. Uh but for for all other
types of products, services, rights,
indices
people are going to hedge that risk.
They're going to be in the market to
speculate on those products and so we we
don't merit regulate. We don't tell
people what they should be entering into
contracts on. We create rules and
regulations around those markets to make
sure that they have integrity, that
they're resilient, that they're vibrant,
and they have guardrails and investor
protections. And so that's why going
back to the exchange rule books and
other controls, self-certification uh
being an important process for making
sure that those markets are safe and
secure, but we're not telling people
whether to trade pork bellies or Cardi B
contracts or anything else.
So let's go to the insider trading
question cuz this is sort of top of mind
for a lot of people. Technically, it's
not insider trading, but, you know, it
does look like some people have inside
knowledge sometimes when they put on big
bets on something that just happens to
happen the next day. The CFTC hasn't, as
far as I know, given a lot of guidance
on this issue. How are you actually
thinking about it? Well, from a legal
standpoint, I think there's a bit of a
misunderstanding about the insider
trading doctrine at the CFTC. So, the
authority at the agency is very similar
to the authority at the SEC. Under our
anti-fraud, anti-manipulation rule, we
do have authority to police insider
trading in the commodities markets. Now,
the the way that insider trading is
carried out is oftentimes different from
a situation where you have informational
asymmetries relevant to a company, but
there are situations where you have
informational asymmetries related to the
markets, placing a trade ahead of a a
customer, for example, or even in this
this situation now with prediction
markets. And that's something we are
thinking about and certainly on the beat
and exploring. Um so, we we surveil the
markets, we uh collect data, we have
information about, for example, you
know, our players participating in these
markets, are uh people associated with
the sports leagues, etc. And so, we are
a cop on the beat in that regard. Um so,
the doctrine's not entirely different,
but there are some nuances that we are
aware of and and making sure that we're
policing for.
Would Polymarket or Kalshi, in your
view, be allowed to live stream a video
of a giant roulette wheel and create
futures trade let people trade futures
on when it lands on red or black?
Some of these types of gaming, where
it's really a game of chance and not a
game of skill, there's definitely a
difference. And and I think when we look
at what's a commodity, it's possible
that you could construct some sort of
contract, uh an esoteric derivative, but
really the underlying in in game of
skill is very different. There's a clear
economic risk associated, for example,
with the Super Bowl is a good example.
There's a ton of economic activity
associated with that. There's hotel
revenue that comes from it. There's
vendors. There's activity within the
city, tourism, all of that. And so
there's a real reason to hedge that
risk. With a game of of chance, it's
harder to say. It's possible you could
construct something, but but it's less
likely that that's a real underlying.
Well, like what is like the difference
because, you know, let's say it's what
is Bad Bunny's first song going to be at
the Super Bowl? Like what is the
difference between that which doesn't
really seem any more economic than, you
know, a roulette wheel and
whatever it is. Well, to be clear,
there's no requirement in the act that
there has to necessarily be some
merit-based
result from a from a contract. I do
think with a lot of these information
markets, these prediction markets where
they're forecasting a potential outcome
in the future, they produce a lot of
useful information. We are seeing
newsrooms incorporate prediction
markets. We're seeing sports live
broadcasts incorporate prediction
markets. We're seeing the information
used in particular,
a great example is the election in 2024
where the president had a very large
victory and that was not necessarily
forecast in many of the polls, but of
course the prediction markets got that
right. So it's something that I think is
valuable to society. The the question of
having regulation around that's a
separate question. I think that's an
important one. We are certainly taking
on that task and making sure that we
don't let these markets languish or that
we don't push them offshore, but we
develop the right rules and regulations
to
develop investor protections and make
sure that the markets
are flourishing here in the United
States.
Since we're discussing prediction
markets through the prism through the
medium of the Super Bowl.
And you mentioned players as well,
looking at player behavior. If a player
were to place a bet on, I don't know, a
specific play during the game and then
they did it themselves, like something
that they actually have agency over.
Would that be something that you would
investigate or look into?
You know, I think it's all facts and
circumstances. So, we would evaluate
potentially to the extent that there's
insiders that are involved in the
markets. We get that data. We're
actually talking to a lot of the sports
leagues. We're talking to participants
in the markets to make sure that we are
on top of things. Have, you know,
information about who is able to be
participating in these markets, who's
not. We do have at the exchange level,
the exchanges are really the first line
of defense.
And they are
surveilling the markets. They're doing
KYC on their customers. And so, that's
certainly something we're on top of and
and we'd consider and evaluate on a
case-by-case basis.
Why isn't trading sports derivatives
gambling or betting? Or is it betting?
Well, there there really is an
interesting history here. So, if you go
back to the the 30s,
national, you know, grain betting was a
thing, right? That was considered a
national pastime. And so, for as long as
we've had derivatives markets, we've had
these so-called bucket shops, which were
you know, these these off-exchange
markets where people were just placing
bets against the house on the future
price of a commodity. On the other hand,
you had organized exchanges. So, the
Chicago Board of Trade, later CME and
and others had organized markets
integrity. They had derivative
instruments, contracts where you
actually were in a contract with another
person. And then now in our markets, we
have a clearinghouse innovating and
standing in the middle of those
contracts. But you have a buyer for
every seller. With the with the kind of
bookie model, that's not the case.
You're betting against the house.
And there's a lot of different rules
when you're betting against the house.
You don't have the liquidity of being
able to offset your position or sell
sell out of your position. You're kind
of stuck taking whatever the bookie is
giving you. And some of the odds are
very different. So, you're actually
facing the odds of the bookie as opposed
to here where the contracts go up and
down in value based on actual market
activity. And so, over time, the Supreme
Court actually blocked some of this
bucket shop activity by saying you can't
take the price quotations from the
organized exchanges and use them in a
bucket shop.
But a lot of these bucket shops over the
years have have now moved into gaming
and other things. Um we're seeing really
this same phenomenon where we have
casinos and other operations that are
operating lawfully under state
requirements and and regulations, but
they don't have the same sorts of
controls. You know, we regulate a a
nearly $500 trillion notional market
with the swaps market. We have very
stringent requirements and controls
around our exchanges, and these
contracts reflect that. They go through
uh a very stringent process of of
self-certification. They can't be
readily susceptible to manipulation. We
surveil those markets. We police things
like insider trading. And so, it's a
much more robust scheme on top of these
markets, much higher um stringent
requirements. And so, I I I do think
we're seeing a lot of parallels between
the '30s and '40s and today, um but but
rest assured that we're on top of these
markets, and and these have the the same
sorts of investor protections that you
would expect in the securities markets
and in our futures markets. Mhm.
Out of curiosity, how much of your time
is split now between the new stuff,
prediction markets, crypto, versus the I
guess the old boring futures exchanges?
Yeah, old fi.
>> Well, our day-to-day is really the the
traditional markets. So, and when we
talk about these new markets, many of
the incumbents are getting into the
space as well. Um we're seeing more and
more of these products offered on our
traditional DCMs, but all of these are
the same registration category, right?
There are some nuances in how they're
set up. There's some no-action relief
that's been given to some of these
platforms historically, but this is not
um
it's not you know, our day-to-day uh
bulk of work. That said, given that it's
new and given that there's so much that
is changing, we have a lot of more a lot
more rulemaking and policy work to do in
this space. So, I so I do think it's a a
a big piece because of that, but in
terms of the actual size of these
markets compared to our as I said about
$500 trillion notional swaps market $40
trillion
notional futures markets. It's a smaller
piece but but it's growing and I think
blockchain is going to really change in
particular how some of these existing
exchanges operate how they settle
transactions and so forth and so it's a
really exciting time to be in the seat.
So I get that there are some market
structure differences between a futures
exchange on sports versus the
traditional house sets the odds and so
forth. But from the perspective of the
user or the person who's putting money
on the line like I think most people
would say like economically
they're very similar and they're getting
more similar because we know that say
like the Kalshi and Polymarket they're
trying to get into figure out how to do
parlays and stuff. So like it's getting
closer and closer. And now you know
people have a lot of concerns about
sports gambling and the effect that that
has on young people and so forth.
Legalize a you know national
legalization of these it de facto lowers
the age in a lot of states because in a
lot of states the legal age to gamble is
21 and the legal age to trade a futures
like 18 I believe. Is this is this do
you think that's good that we've de
facto lowered the age to bet on sports?
Well again we're not merit regulators we
we don't pass judgment on kind of the
age requirements in our securities
markets and our derivatives markets. We
have certain standards that have been
upheld these markets people are betting
on you know any any number of assets
right if you want to call it betting.
>> overwhelmingly sports. I mean I think
that said you have the ability to make
investments and trade options and all
manner of securities all manner of
commodities and so the rules are not
different based on it being sports or
this or that. You know I think this term
betting has been used and thrown about
in in our securities markets and our
derivatives markets as well. So I I I
think it necessarily means anything in
particular, but the notion is that
you're able to make decisions at 18
in our markets and we uphold that state
by state some of the the standards have
been set even higher and and that is not
something that you know I have a
particular opinion on. I think that's
just the way it goes.
>> say sorry, what do you mean in state by
state some of the standards have been
set?
>> Some of the states have flexibility in
what they set up for drinking or for you
know gambling and the like. This is
financial market activity. These are not
wagers. You're not betting against the
house. We have significant overlay from
a regulatory standpoint over these
markets and so we're not gatekeeping
particular categories of markets
elections or sports and having different
standards. That's not how we've
typically done things and and so we
don't intend to do that in this
particular market. So you're not a
merit-based regulator, but you are a
technical regulator and as we've been
discussing there's a lot going on lots
of rule making to do lots of potential
enforcement actions. There's a barren
story out today talking about how the
CFTC apparently has no enforcement
officers left in its Chicago office and
you used to have 20, but everyone
resigned it seems. How are you balancing
all these new markets which are growing
really really fast and pose some very
thorny questions that we've been
discussing with more limited resources?
Well look a lot of the folks that left
that was before my tenure and certainly
>> You're not blaming yet. It's not
[laughter]
you know they didn't leave right after I
joined right?
But but no I think I think that it's a
serious question right? We've got to
make sure that we have adequate staff to
police the markets and we and we do have
a ton of staff throughout the country.
And you know to the point of our Chicago
office of course it's important that we
have folks within that office, but we
don't have a Texas office. We don't have
a Florida office. We don't have offices
in every state. We have a handful of
offices. We've got a a mass in DC and a
number of folks in in New York as well,
and those are our two largest offices.
We we continue to fill those out and we
would love to have more people in
Chicago and and you know, the door's
always open up for folks that want to
come in and work for us, and we continue
to build out the ranks there. But we
have adequate resources, we have a ton
of folks within each of our offices, and
we're actually leveraging a lot of the
new technologies like AI to make sure
that we're surveilling the markets and
that we're reviewing things like insider
trading and bringing where it makes
sense. We're also processing
applications very quickly. We we just
processed, I think, in a record time of
200 days, uh one of the more recent um
exchange applications. So, we're really
uh well-staffed, but we're continuing to
build that out and make sure that we
have good people in the building who are
competent and able to to make sure that
we uh protect our markets. So, you have
the funding to You have the funding to
add head count, and are you pursuing
like building out the head count? Do you
need more funding? What's going on?
>> Absolutely. So, so we are actually
staffing up. Okay. So, 100% we're
building that out. Um we have adequate
resources to do so, but I want to be
clear that we have a very well-staffed
building and we are very much on top of
things within, you know, these questions
around not enforcing and surveilling.
The you know, I think there's a little
bit of fake news there. We probably
should put it up to a prediction market,
but um but I do think that we're on top
of things.
So, one thing I know about the Trump
administration, they're big fans,
seemingly, of cutting costs, cutting
spending, streamlining the federal
government in some ways, and you know,
sometimes cutting agencies altogether.
This has been a really long-running
question in market structure world, but
why don't we just combine the CFTC and
the SEC?
It's everybody's favorite question.
Well, look, the CFTC and SEC are very
different regulators. So, the SEC is a
capital markets regulator. They're
focused on somebody wants to go raise
capital for a a idea, other people want
to place that capital somewhere. There
needs to be some regulation over that.
After the Great Depression, there was a
lot of chaos in the markets, and the
agency really was a great answer to that
issue, and has has put
a great regime in place to regulate all
of that. The CFTC grew up actually at a
different time. The original act was in
the '30s, but later on the CFTC was
established in the '70s. But the purpose
of the CFTC is to regulate risk
mitigation, risk management. Very
different area. So there are firms that
whether farmers, ranchers, energy
producers, now we have data centers, in
the AI space, but but all manner of
businesses have a bunch of risk related
to the inputs for their business and
ongoing operations, and they need to
hedge that risk. And there are other
participants that want to supply
liquidity into those markets, make
markets, or speculate. And the CFTC
regulates that. So very different
purpose for the regulator. There's not
the same sort of disclosure regime that
we have with the SEC. And so it makes
sense to have two separate regulators.
But what doesn't make sense and what
Chairman Atkins and I have been very
clear on is the lack of coordination
between the agencies. So it's it's
coordination, not consolidation. We need
to harmonize the two regimes to make
sure that there's not inconsistent and
incompatible rules and that there's not
gaps. So Chairman Atkins has referred to
this no man's land between the two
agencies where you've got the bodies of
all these dead products and services
that otherwise could have been if the
agencies could just figure out how to
coordinate. Security futures is a great
example. We have shared jurisdiction
there, but we've really failed to work
well together to get that off the
ground. And so I think it's really a new
day at both agencies where we're we're
intending to work closely together on
that. Yeah, this is exactly what I
wanted to ask. So I I've heard people
talk about increased cooperation and
coordination between the SEC and the
CFTC basically ever since the financial
crisis, and it hasn't really happened,
or it hasn't happened to the degree that
some people would like to see. What's
your diagnosis of the actual problem
there? And I would love to get into the
weeds here, and you know, like what does
coordination look like between the two
agencies?
Yeah, I mean, I'm I'm in a good position
that I used to work for Chairman Atkins,
but you know, I so I think we have a
great relationship just getting off for
the start. But a memorandum of
understanding is something that we've
committed to execute, and we're looking
very soon, and that really set all the
ground rules for coordination between
the staffs. And so, not having that in
place, I think it's really hampered the
two agencies because sharing information
is really important. You need a
framework for sharing that information.
There's a lot of non-public material
that that is generated in each building,
and so having rules for the sharing of
that information is important. Having
regular meetings between the staffs and
coordination and sharing of market data
related to registrants is really
important. So, if we've got dual
registrants, and we're collecting our
own sets of information, and we're we're
ensuring that they're each complying
with these two kind of separate
fortresses of rules and regulations, um
how do we know what what what's who's
doing what, and what needs to be
changed? And so, having the information
is really important. That's the first
step. And then the staffs need to come
together and figure out how to create
substitute of compliance. So, certain
rules are incompatible on both sides. We
need to knock those out, or at least
have a kind of default choice one agency
versus the other. If you're a
broker-dealer, and you're doing a very
minimal amount of commodity derivatives
activity, perhaps you should have a
primary regulator at the SEC with some
CFTC overlay to make sure that there's
no gaps.
Um so, that that's an important piece. I
think a lot of the
general like crypto-related
issues are
really calling for joint rule making,
joint work between the agencies because
we're seeing Nvidia tokens on chain not
necessarily within the US, but I think
now with the DTC we're going to start
seeing a lot more of the tokenization of
of public equities. And then we're also
seeing Bitcoin, ether, things that are
with the within our territory trading on
chain and those worlds are going to
collide and then they are in fact
colliding today. And so having common
ground between the agencies figuring out
what the ground rules are and making
sure that we have similar standards for
decentralized finance and for digital
wallets and all of that's really
important because if if we set
incompatible standards, then it's going
to be a real disservice to the market
and that's going to harm all Americans.
Kalshi had an ad recently. It said POV
is a girl and it said POV I was about I
was about to be unable to pay my rent,
but I got two years of rent through
Kalshi's predictions.
It's amazing. Um this is seems more
aggressive even than
you know, the traditional sports betting
and there's all kinds of sports betting
ads and then they have a thing where
it's like if you're a problem gambler,
call this number. Should there be any
limiting factor on how aggressively
sports these prediction markets should
be advertised?
Well, that that's one point that I think
is is worth double clicking on in the
sense that there are standards for a
futures commission merchants for for the
brokers within our markets. And some of
those standards are
a relic essentially of the way that the
act and the regulations developed where
you have
intermediation between the customer and
the clearing house and the exchange
typically in our markets. Now, these no
action letters that started around 2000
that were given to some of the
prediction markets back then as well as
now other markets cut out the the FCM,
cut out the broker. And so you had
direct to the clearing house, direct to
the exchange and that model doesn't have
all the same rules and regulations. and
so something that we're thinking about
is is how do we make sure that we have
consistent standards across both. Now, I
think this question of what sort of
marketing and advertising either should
be able to engage in is one that that
we're we're certainly going to think
about.
>> Sorry, just to be clear there are
current rules on say a futures broker
and how they can market. But when these
new no action letters were established
that allowed the sort of the futures
entity itself to offer directly, they
didn't have the rules. What are the
rules? And would an ad like these like
like if a if a if a futures broker like
I don't know, I forget MF Global or
something that like oh, I I couldn't pay
my rent, but then now I'm you know, now
my now I'll never have to work again cuz
I traded wheat futures.
That seems a little weird and I've never
seen an ad like that.
>> Right, I mean it really is this result
of the way that these no action letters
were handed down as I said many many
years ago and this kind of regime that
we have that really
My view on a lot of this stuff is that
we need to clear rules of the road. We
need to do things through notice and
comment rule making and actually think
holistically about our markets and not
focus on these little patchwork no
action letters which unfortunately has
been the you know, the rule over many
years. And so that's definitely
something we're thinking about. We want
to set clear standards. We want
stakeholders at the table to figure out
what these regimes should look like and
I'm not one necessarily to say what the
marketing should look like. We want to
hear from participants as to what what
sort of marketing they think's
appropriate for these markets. Um but
but we're certainly thinking about that
and there are different standards. It
really is just a result of the the kind
of ad hoc way that regulators in the
past have gone about establishing
exceptions for certain things in the
markets. Well, on this note, do you
maybe need new classifications cuz it
seems like all these different worlds
are kind of melding together where you
might have a crypto trading platform
that's now offering derivatives um and
other things and then you have like an
old school exchange that is offering
essentially bets on like number go up,
number go down. At the moment, I think
your registration categories are pretty
like
standardized and you have three of them,
is that right? Like futures exchange,
swap execution, stuff like that. No,
we've got too many. We've got many. Not
anymore.
>> All right, more than that. So, could you
create even more to sort of encompass
the industry changes that we're seeing?
Well, we certainly need to think
holistically about what requirements we
have on different participants. So,
these non-intermediated exchanges and
we're also seeing a lot of vertical
integration with
a single business owning a clearing
house and FCM, the broker and the
exchange. We're seeing different models
where where there's the
non-intermediated as I said. We don't
have an FCM at all and then you have all
everything in between. And so, we we
need to think about that. We need to
make sure there's consistent standards.
We don't want a regulatory arbitrage
where because you don't have the broker,
you're able to do more. Now, the way
that these have been set up under no
action letters today, they do not allow
for any margin. So, there's they're non
they're fully collateralized. And so, if
you go directly to the clearing house as
a customer, you're putting up full
collateral and so, that's something as
well where we're seeing more
institutional interest in these markets.
They would prefer to be able to put up
margin and go through a broker or have a
model where you don't have the broker at
all, but you're able to use margin. So,
we're thinking about all these things.
It's it's a really interesting time as I
said to to be thinking about market
structure for things that really just
probably should have been done many
years ago and and for whatever reason,
people relied on these no action letters
and and really I guess it was more of a
an ankle biter at the time and and
didn't get a full regime, but we're
thinking about all of that.
Uh Donald Trump Jr. is an advisor to
Kalshi. He's on the board of Polymarket
and um it looks like Truth Social, which
is largely owned by President Trump is
also going to they launched something
called truth predict. How should the
public feel comfortable that these are
well regulated markets given the very
obvious sort of like stake that the that
the that the White House and his family
that the president and his family has in
this industry? These are designated
contract markets like any other. We've
regulated these markets for for many
many years for decades. They have some
of the most stringent regulatory
requirements as I mentioned. These are
nearly $500 notional markets that we
regulate. We take it very seriously. We
police fraud and manipulation these
markets. So I think everybody can rest
assured that we are on top of protecting
the markets.
And we think it's great that there's a
broad swath of of interest in the
markets. But like so for example, when
you're figuring out like what is the
appropriate level of advertising going
back to those Kelce ads and you're
thinking like okay like how do you know
and you you talk about
talking to market participants. Like who
is that and like how should people feel
comfortable that you're going to find
that right line again when the
administration has like a very clear
economic stake in this industry and
having the industry grow? We adhere to
the law. I mean the Commodity Exchange
Act is our authorizing statute. We act
in accordance with the Commodity
Exchange Act. We have very strict ethics
and and you know government requirements
and as does I think everyone in this
administration. So we take all that very
seriously. So speaking of Trump, we
should talk a little bit more about
crypto
because it's been having a pretty bad
month so far and I think one of the big
hopes of the industry the Clarity Act
seems to be stalled in Congress. What
happens if that doesn't go through
because you've sort of I feel like
you've committed yourself to being you
know, a crypto-digital asset-friendly
administration
or regulator in many ways.
Well, thanks to the president's
leadership, I really do think we're at a
critical moment where we've got GENESIS
now as law, regulation by enforcement's
done, we've got the Clarity Act that's
really on the precipice. I I think
there's a few issues that are being
ironed out actually as we speak. I know
there's a meeting today, and we're
hopeful that that's going to get done. I
think that's going to set a really
future-proof framework for crypto here
in the US. We can't allow European
countries and and others to lead in this
area without US involvement and
leadership. And so, we're committed to
getting that done. I think we've got a
really great bill that's that's almost
at the finish line. If it doesn't get
done, look, I think there's a lot of
authority that the agencies have, but
it's it's important with Loper Bright
and and some of the the case law that
takes a little bit of the agencies'
discretion over nuances in the statute
and puts that back to Congress and in
the courts.
I think it's really important to have
more baked into the statute than not.
And so, we're hopeful that we'll get a
statute in place. You know, one of the
areas that crypto seems to have
been at the forefront of is perpetual
futures. And you know,
very popular. You see like you can get
100 to 1 leverage trading ETH futures on
some platforms. Do you see um
the more use of perpetual perps in sort
of traditional finance? Could we have
perpetual oil futures at some point?
Like could you envision that?
Well, right now we're thinking about it
in crypto. I think the real
>> But like I you know, trade it on chain
on chain like oil futures. Like again,
if we're like, "Okay, crypto provides
the infrastructure." But could you like
why not trade
you know, again an oil perp on a on
chain. Look, if there's demand for these
products, it's definitely something that
we'll consider and look at. Right now,
the overwhelming demand's been in the
crypto space. We've seen some demand in
in precious metals, gold, silver.
>> We have to consider the susceptibility
of each contract to manipulation. So,
there might be unique considerations
around a contract that doesn't have a
physical delivery date
with for example, pork bellies or other
things and that can create issues within
the supply and and liquidity for for the
futures contracts. So, something we're
thinking about. We're definitely excited
about all this innovation. It's been too
long that this stuff has only developed
offshore and we really want to bring it
back with clear rules of the road. So,
it's really important that the US leads
and that we set the standard that other
countries are going to follow rather
than just allow this stuff to to
flourish offshore with potentially less
regulation. You know, as you as you all
know, when you offer into various
countries, there's different rules
around offering directly in or
solicitation reverse solicitation, all
of that. So, we're certainly aware of
that. We're thinking about it. We want
to set really clear and kind of best in
class standards for US markets. Just
going back to prediction markets. I know
you keep emphasizing that you're
not a merit-based regulator, right? So,
you're not making decisions on what
people should be betting on or what they
can bet on. But is there like is there a
line at some point that you wouldn't
want to see private companies actually
cross? Like, if someone creates a
contract for like someone's going to
die, right? A violent death or
something. That That would seem
problematic.
>> Or a contract that this came up when we
talked to
Don Wilson in Chicago, the contract for
what whether people would throw sex toys
onto the court during a WNBA game, which
of course
the existence of the contract, right,
elicit people to do it, change their
behavior. Also kind of dangerous. Like,
you know, what is where do you where is
the line?
>> The latter seems highly at risk of you
know being susceptible to manipulation
which we do have authority to reject. I
think with other categories
assassination and the like there there
is authority within our statute to
prohibit so we would exercise that
authority you know there's certain areas
where we certainly would not want
contracts being offered but with others
look we're we're not as I said a mere
regulator we're not going to go and say
you can't have a contract in sports you
can't have a contract in politics but
the the details matter and we are
evaluating that.
Just going back to you know the sort of
basic question a lot of states attorneys
generals or attorneys general did I say
did I pluralize the attorneys lot of
states attorneys general
you know there's a lot of court fights
about this and they look at this and
like many people would and they say look
this is this is betting this is this is
gambling this certainly looks like
sports gambling. Kelsey itself ran ads
that said sports betting is now legal in
your state and I think they've
pulled those
back etc. But from the perspective of
the public it certainly looks like by
calling by putting sports betting into
this framework that a lot of like that
it's undermined the ability of states
like set the rules about who can bet on
what. Well there's a great law journal
article by Professor Hazen he's a
securities law professor this must have
been written in the early 2000s but it
was before the the financial crisis
comparing derivatives
futures contracts securities insurance
products gambling these are all products
that you can take similar economic
positions in but they have different
legal treatment and it's because the
products are structured different ways
so an insurance contract could be
structured very similarly to a credit
default swap but you have an insurable
interest
so so the details do matter and we are
looking at that so it's not the case
that we're going into the casinos and
saying your offering illegal
off-exchange swaps, but if the products
are structured as swaps, then we have
authority there. And so many of these
platforms that are offering products
that may have some similar economic
attributes, but the details do matter,
right? As I as I mentioned, you can you
have to go through a clearing house. The
products can be offset. You can get in
and out of your position. There are
differences.
>> I totally get that, but do they matter
from the perspective of like a
19-year-old who's addicted to betting on
sports? Well, I think that's a question
for society as a whole and you know, for
Congress, right? I mean, to the extent
we don't want a 19-year-old trading
Nvidia stock options either. You know,
that's that's something that you can
talk to Congress about, but the reality
is that today we allow 18 plus in our
financial markets and there's
responsibility associated with that.
They have to go through a broker in many
cases. There is this nuance of the
non-intermediated model, but there's
screening as well to be able to access
those markets. And so, we do have
standards. We do have rules.
Everything's done in accordance with an
exchange rule book and we enforce that
and we are policing those markets, but I
think this this more
paternalistic question of what age
should be the the age to be able to
participate in the markets. These people
can be drafted, go off to war. And so,
question of whether they can trade
options on you know, the outcome of the
Super Bowl.
You know, I I think that's not really
for the regulator to decide.
You know, you said you were ramping up
staffing to, you know, help regulate all
these new markets, new and fast-growing
markets. What's the hiring process or
the hiring experience actually like at
the moment because, you know, thinking
back
to last year, 2025, all the headlines
when it came to government employment
were, you know, layoffs,
mass firing, streamlining.
What's What's that like for you now? Is
it easy to get people in the door? Well,
look, there are there are to the extent
there are um areas where we need
additional staff, we are evaluating
based on competence and the highest
quality. We do not want uh to to just
bring on bodies to bring on bodies.
We're making sure that we're bringing on
the right people for the roles. And in
many cases, we are very well staffed. Uh
I think there are some needs that we're
looking to fill out. Uh but but again,
it's it's it's very much akin to hiring
at a private company. We're looking to
bring on the best and the brightest who
really want to help uh revitalize the
agency, fill out needs for the agency.
And we are, as I mentioned earlier,
relying a lot on technology as well
because there's just so much that uh
many years ago really had to be done
manually that can be done very quickly
through uh new technologies. Well, this
has been a perennial question, which is
how government agencies actually compete
with the private sector to get good
people. How are you doing that at the
moment given that I mean, I imagine you
have some form of budget constraint uh
and I would imagine that it's probably
your budget is not as big as like, I
don't know, CME's or something like
that. How do How do you actually
compete?
Well, look, I I think part of that's the
mission. We are uh really interested in
uh making sure that these markets
flourish here in the United States. It's
an exciting time. Many people are
interested in being able to contribute
to that effort. We're really, uh as I
said earlier, setting new market
structure for this asset class as well
as uh for for blockchain-based markets.
And a lot of the things that needed to
be fixed in the wake of Dodd-Frank that
frankly were never fixed. Um so, I I
think it's in part mission, in part
people that are willing to serve and and
come in and and maybe they don't get the
salary that they get in the private
sector, but that's not necessarily a bad
thing. They get a lot of value out of
being uh at working for the government.
Do you think, going back to the question
of like marketing and again, gambling
marketing, there's always like some line
or whatever about people who get
addicted. Would you like Congress to
come in and create rules? Should
Congress come up with a rule about uh
prediction market advertising?
We've got a lot of authority to regulate
our participants. I I think there's
sometimes a real need for Congress to
the extent you know as you all
mentioned, if you really want to set
some sort of more paternalistic rule
around you have to be 18 or 21 to
participate in the market. That that
sort of thing sure you can talk to
Congress about. With respect to the more
um
nuanced pieces of how we regulate the
markets, that's stuff that we handle. Uh
it's not typically baked into statute.
We go through our notice and comment
process and get input from the public on
those sorts of things. So I don't
necessarily think you need to kick
everything to Congress within the
details, but um but but it certainly
could be something that that people uh A
lot of countries, you know, or sorry, a
lot of states regard like okay, under
21. Like we don't want that, right? And
it sounds like you regard that as
paternalism in action, which you know, I
understand a lot of people share that
view, but um you know, it also seems
like the CFTC, you know,
people have different views and it
sounds like the CFTC is sort of
undermining a value that a state might
have about gambling.
I don't view it that way. I I do think
our derivatives markets are are a
separate uh
area within
government and within the law as opposed
to the state gambling and the the
the rules and requirements that govern a
state casino are very different. Uh they
can do a lot different things than what
a uh regulated futures exchange can do.
And so I I do think there's some give
and take, some for sure limitation on
the age piece, but uh look, you can
serve alcohol in a casino and allow
people to bet on sports. You can't do
that necessarily at a at a digital
exchange. Maybe somebody's got a beer on
the side, but I I do think there's a lot
of different restrictions and in a
different environment in which people
are trading, so it's not quite apples to
apples. Mike Sealing, thank you so much
for uh coming on Odd Lots. A perfect
guest at the perfect time. Thanks for
having me.
I enjoyed that conversation.
>> However,
there are a number of difficulties with
regulating prediction markets, and I'm
I'm kind of trying to like zoom in on
what I think might be the primary one.
So, number one,
the CFTC exists to regulate risk
management, right? Which is what Mike
said.
It is very doubtful to me that someone
needs to manage their exposure to Cardi
B performing on stage at the Super Bowl.
So, it's not even entirely clear to me
that like this is an industry that the
CFTC should be regulating. Now, that
said,
so that's that's a big tension, right?
And then just beyond that,
you could certainly argue that by
legitimizing prediction markets and
helping them to grow, you are in in fact
introducing a new risk into the system
because everyone's going to start
gambling away, I don't know, their
college funds or whatever. You know
what? I think Mike made an interesting
observation sort of near the end of the
conversation that like
and that's totally true. Like, different
market structures
warrant different types of regulatory
treatment, right? So, and I think that
makes sense. I think what's interesting
though about this conversation,
particularly as it relates to sports
betting, is that part of the reason that
we have that uh states have sort of in
many cases either no sports betting or
very stringent rules about who can
engage in sports betting has nothing to
do with financial risk and everything to
do with the sort of like moral choice
about who gets to sports bet. And so,
you know, on one hand it's like, "Okay,
there's like um
traditional sports books. They have a
house that sets the odds. It's
definitely true that prediction market
companies have like a different market
structure."
But from a sort of like why does society
want to constrain the role of sports
betting? It's not because of like any
sort of like financial instability risk.
It's because we don't want certain
people like 18-year-olds, people who
might still be in high school, having
access to sports betting. And when the
CFTC says like, uh you know, this is
this is a new type of uh financial
instrument that should be regulated like
a financial instrument, it sort of
undercuts that sort of choice that the
state has made.
>> Yeah, exactly. Um do you think sports
betting is like the new monoculture?
I mean, it is really incredible. I mean,
it is really incredible how pervasive it
is. And it's really incredible. But
also, it's just incredible, you know,
truly how pervasive betting on
everything is. And you know, I I should
say like
I I'm an enthusiastic
consumer of the prediction market's
data. You know, like I said in the very
beginning, like I now win on all kinds
of things, including Fed decisions. You
know, like I think it's very useful to
say like you know, look at like certain
measures of like, I don't know, you
know, the Fed fund swaps or whatever.
It's like, I don't Why wouldn't you just
look at Warp?
No, I like uh
I like I love Warp, too. But like a
simple we have it on the Bloomberg now.
Polymarket, will there be three rate
cuts this year? That is also uh useful
instrument to have. But there are a lot
of things um
that prediction markets have. And again,
um that A aren't that. Um but I you
know, I like a lot of them. I like
looking at election odds. I like looking
at whether um the odds of like some
company, what they're going to Like I
think there's a lot of useful signal
from them. It's also true that the
platforms are largely sports betting at
this point.
>> Right. Right. How much signal do you
actually need about
I don't know, the Super Bowl.
I'm sure some people are really into it.
But from a
trading perspective,
>> from a financial
>> standpoint, it's a different question.
Anyway. All right. Shall we leave it
there? And it's also true, by the way,
that the Trump family is very invested,
quite literally, into this space. And I
think that
quite reasonably should,
you know, raise some questions about
like how policy is being made about the
growth of this industry.
>> Incentives, for sure. Okay. Shall we now
leave it there?
>> Leave it there. Okay. This has been
another episode of the Odd Lots podcast.
I'm Tracy Alloway. You can follow me at
Tracy Alloway. And I'm Joe Weisenthal.
You can follow me at the Stalwart.
Follow our guest, Michael Seelig. He's
at Michael Seelig. Follow our producers,
Carmen Rodriguez at Carmen Armendarez,
Hal Bennet at Dashbot, and Keil Brooks
at Keil Brooks.
And if you enjoy Odd Lots and you want
more Odd Lots content, then go to daily
newsletter and some
of our other writings. And you can chat
with fellow listeners 24/7 about this
topic, discord.gg/odd
lots. And if you enjoyed this
conversation, then please leave a
comment or like the video or, better
yet, subscribe. Thanks for watching.
>> [singing and music]